Project's Title : SQL Challenge 

Project Description : This SQL script explores creating and querying a database using pgAdmin and some provided example data.  The output of this script and usable component it the .sql files and a .pgn file.  This is less about a rigorous analysis and more about understanding the schemata of a database model and how to play around wiht it and get an understanding of the process and overall flow.

How to Install and Run the Project: Download the sql-challenge directory locally and execute either or both *.sql files using an adequate environment (pgAdmin, VSCode, etc). The goal of this project was primarily to understand rather than gnerate a rigorous analysis, so the code as is is all that matters.  Read it through.

How to Use the Project: Open then Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) ERD.png file to review a visual representation of the database. Open the schema using schema.sql and review that the tables are imported correctly, related on their primary and foreign keys appropriately, and that all fields have their appropriate data types, etc.  Open the queries.sql to review the code used to queries against this dataset, relative to the requested information. 

If the exact outputs are desired, load the schema.sql into pgAdmin, then load in the respective data from the Resources file to the associated tables, then execute.  The schema is constructed to DROP and CREATE each of the tables if they already exist - it is important that the raw .csv files are not modified as the table structure and data types must be maintained.  Run each query separately from the queries.sql file in pgAdmin once the data have been loaded to view the outputs as intended.

Credits: Example data and direction for creation were provided by Rutgers University Data Science Bootcamp, taught by Anju Ajwani, 2023. Structure of README file provided here: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-a-good-readme-file/ All sources of code used are given context and source within the comments of the code.
License Contact Rutgers University for acceptable use of the code generated by student through their bootcamp course, as policy may change at any time.
